# week-03-salter.md
write 2-3 paragraphs that explore what contemporary tools (digital or physical) could be used to create art that could be considered a Gesamtkunstwerk. Is there an example in the Rhizome Anthology that could qualify?  
  To write about what could be considered a "Gesamtkunstwerk," and what could qualify as such, we have to understand, what "Gesamtkunstwerk" means.  
As described in the text, "The synthesis of art forms, what Wagner labeled the Gesamtkunstwerk (the total artwork) to include all phases of art and in doing so to consume, to destroy each one, so to speak, in favor of the total purpose of them all."  
Wagner believes that everything is art: the music, costume design, design of the stage, architecture, sculpture, and painting, Wagner believed that Opera is everything creative, so a "total work of art." A combination of different art forms combined to create one giant masterpiece. 
  I believe one example of "Gesamtkunstwerk" is from Wagner's work himself. His version of "Der Ring." He incorporated music, drama, poetry, and theatrical art, that was originally based on 4 operas of the same story. Another example of "Gesamtkunstwerk" is the creation of The Bauhaus. The main founder of the school was, Walter Gropius, who supported the idea of "Gesamtkunstwerk," for his establishment. "Bau" in German, means house, and, "Haus" also means House, the Bauhaus creates one unifying educational building of different mediums of art and design under one roof,l with different people from different backgrounds, sitting next to one another. My favorite example of Gesamtkunstwerk is from a college named, "Black Mountain College," located in, North Carolina. Black Mountain College, challenges the idea of Gesamtkunstwerk reforming their approach to Art Education in conventional and non-conventional means. In this school, tutors, more specifically John Cage and Merce Cunningham would encourage the students to collaborate with the staff in surprising ways, learning from each other. With the spirit of this in mind, John Cage created the ultimate "Gesamtkunstwerk" art piece called, "Theatre Piece No.1, 1952." regarded as, "the first happening." As described by Merce Cunningham herself, "David Tudor played the piano, M.C. Richards and Charles Olson read poetry, Robert Rauschenberg’s white paintings were on the ceiling, Rauschenberg himself played records, and Cage talked. I danced…The audience was seated in the middle of the playing area, facing each other, the chairs were arranged on diagonals, and the spectators unable to see directly everything that was happening. There was a dog which chased me around the space as I danced. Nothing was intended to be other than it was, a complexity of events that the spectators could deal with as each chose.” Cage structured the activity using time brackets arrived at by chance methods."
  I liked John's idea, and if I were to host a Gesamtkunstwerk piece, I would use everybody in the class to be a part of it, as a class piece rather than my own. I'd ask some people to write poetry pieces, some to play music, some to dance, and some to film, or to take pictures of the audience as the art piece goes, whilst everyone wears clothing that represents them the most, so the audience can guess who our characters are, from what we wore. 
I found one example of what I think could qualify as an example of Gesamtkunstwerk, and it is the website, Rhyzome Net Art Anthology. There are over 150 different pieces of art, of different mediums all over the website, that are documented on Net Art Anthology. To me, kind of like the Bauhaus. On the website, there are art pieces from all over time, and it's all compacted on the website. I saw one called, "Arcangel Surfwave," that is created from the internet, and now sells clothes, the owner, Cory Arcangel, submitted a film called, "So shines a good deed in a weary world" which is just him looking over the Dunkin Donuts website for 90 minutes. I don't know if it counts, but I think Net Art Anthology could count as an example of Gesamtkunstwerk, due to the fact, it hosts a variety of different mediums by different artists, and share a theme of: Net Art. 

